Please complete one copy of this form for each paper that you are
given to review.

Authors will not know through this process who reviewed any
submission; it is recommended that this remain anonymous.

Each review form should be returned as a plain text file with the file
name:
CS7IS4-TEAMn-Review-StudentNumber-SURNAME.txt
where n in "TEAMn" is replaced by the cardinal number corresponding
to that of the group who submitted the article to review, and where
StudentNumber and SURNAME are that of the reviewer.

These should be aggregated into a zip file and uploaded via Blackboard,
adhering to the naming conventions described below for the individual
files.  The zip file should be named using the convention:
CS7IS4-REVIEWS-STUDENTNUMBER-STUDENTSURNAME-STUDENTFIRSTNAME-x-y-z-w.zip
where x, y, z and w are the integer numbers corresponding to the group
names of the papers reviewed, in order of increasing integer value.

The student number and surname will be removed from the files that
are returned to authors.

For each question where a scale is used, the intended scale is from 1
to 5, where 5 is the score for the best possible contribution and 1 is
the score for work that is at the opposite end of the spectrum.  For
each category of rating, justify your rating and provide feedback on
how the work could be improved.


0)  Indicate the title and authorship of the article reviewed.
Sentiment Analysis of Soldiers' Tweets - Comparison with Civilians(TBC), by, 
Sumit Makhija, Rachit Rastogi, Chao Chen, Chen Wang and, Chetan Prasad.

1)  Is the title succinct and apt with respect to the essay content?

Rating: 5

Comments: The title of the study complements the essay in relation to content,
structure and design. It is an apt reflection of the layout of the work and the 
initial experimentation.

2)  Does the abstract accurately and concisely set the context for the
  work and indicate the main hypotheses?

Rating: 5

Comments: The abstract is brief and effectively summarizes the study. Readers of 
the study should be able to get a clear idea of the hypothesis and how the experiment
is set up.

3)  Are the keywords appropriate?

Rating: 1

Comments: Keywords are absent.


4)  Does the essay present clearly the research topic and the research
    questions to be pursued within the essay research?

Rating: 4

Comments: The research topic and the methods to be followed within the experiment is 
to be carried out is clearly stated. However, there is no identifiable research question that
ascertains the research's applications. Stating the research applications and why  
relating soldiers' tweets to their emotions would be helpful, might increase the paper's 
usefulness.

5)  Does the research review synthesize a background literature within
    a conceptual framework that the authors propose and defend, making
    clear how the research questions pursued are left open by prior
    literature?

Rating: 3

Comments: The paper reviews a collection of prior research performed in the same field,
however, their disadvantages are not mentioned. Extending the disadvantages of the prior 
researches into this paper and using concepts from them to build an improved model would be 
better.


6)  Does the research question seek to relate properties of texts
    falling within categories presented as relevant to separate
    categories argued within the draft as dependent?

Rating: 4

Comments: Correspondences between textual properties and non-textual ones have been
highlighted, as the hypothesis aims to classify tweets as positive and negative. 
Although the categories themselves are not mentioned. Broadening on these sub-categories
could be helpful.

7)  Does the methods section indicate clearly what corpora will be
    required and what sources will be adopted for the separate
    categories in support of answering the research questions?

Rating: 5

Comments: Data Collection and corpora creation have been clearly highlighted. Several 
sources and the disadvantages of each are also mentioned. The broad categories of dataset's (soldiers
and civilians) that are used to experiment on and their sources have been mentioned appropriately.

8)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the
    corpus will be processed in order to assess it according to
    the categorization scheme proposed within the essay?

Rating: 5

Comments: The processing of the data collected have been appropriately mentioned, with distinct
processing steps and labelled diagrams. Each step and their contents have been 
accurately represented in relation to the hypothesis.

9)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the relevant
    quantities and qualities will be measured and assessed,
    stipulating what would count as a confirmation of the authors'
    hypotheses and what would count as falsification of the authors'
    hypotheses?

Rating: 3 

Comments: While there is clear definition of what the non-textual entities will be,
there is no clear definition of how they will be quantified and compared. A clear description
of result verification and analysis is required to make the paper more undestandable

10) Are the research methods appropriate to the question studied?

Rating: 3

Comments: The research methods only state how the experimentation will be performed.
It is necessary to have a preliminary result set description and conclusion to 
understand the level of deviation from the initial hypothesis.


11) Does the underlying research result in the assembly of a data set
    that will be useful to the wider research community?

Rating: 4

Comments: The data collection section clearly describes the method of data collection. 
The data set collected on soldiers' tweets and civilians' tweets could be helpful for
further study. However, the elements or attributes of the corpora collection should be 
mentioned so that future researchers on the topic could assess its usability as well.


12) Are results clearly provided?

Rating:1

Comments: No initial results have been declared.


13) Does the discussion of results provide a clear interpretation,
    with reference to the research questions posed?

Rating: 1
 
Comments:  No initial results have been declared.

14) Do the conclusions emphasize how the interpreted results
    contribute to the literature?

Rating: 1

Comments: Conclusion and results have not been declared.

15) Are tables and figures clearly annotated and captioned?

Rating: 5

Comments: All figures and tables have been clearly highlighted and labelled in close
correlation to the text.

16) Does the essay present comprehensive bibliographic details for
    works cited?

Rating: 5

Comments: All references have been mentioned in the reference section with suitable
hyperlinks within the text.

17) Is the essay well written in a scholarly mode of presentation?

Rating: 4

Comments: The essay is very well constructed in a fashion to enable research. However,
certain keywords most pertinent to the study should be consistent throughout the study. 
For example the use of the phrase 'normal people' should be replaced with 'civilians'
to elicit a more effective distinction from 'soldiers'. Moreover, 'normal people' is 
not a phrase that should be included in an paper with an academic setting.


18) Does the description of individual contributions suggest an
    equitable division of labour?

Rating: 5

Comments: Every member has contributed equally to the essay and the research project as
per the contribtion declaration.


19) Does the description of individual contributions provide
    sufficiently rich description of the individual contributions in
    a manner that allows an independent reader to assess who
    contributed what and in a fashion that justifies any percentage
    estimates of work?

Rating: 3

Comments: Although the contribution percentages are equally distributed, for a neutral 
reader it will be evident that some members have done more work than others, while some
members have done the same amount of work. The percentages therefore should have 
been distributed in a similar fashion.

20) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to emulate?

Rating: 5

Comments: Using hyperlinks within the paper to link relevant references is noteworthy. Analyzing the 
advantages and disadvantages of various data sources is also noteworthy and seems to be fruitful to 
ascertain which data source would be most helpful for the hypothesis.


21) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to avoid?

Rating: 4

Comments: First and foremost would be include keywords to give readers a set of identifiable 
categories this paper could fall into. Additionally, it is important to keep in mind to keep 
important words most essential to the research consistent throughout the paper. For example,
in this case 'soldiers' and 'civilians'. Also, mentioning experimentation results 
for an initial understanding of the validity of the hypothesis is necessary.

22) Is this work a good candidate for a "best paper" prize?

Rating: 3

Comments: The paper has been written by adhering to all the required formatting criterion.
There are although certain inconsistencies as mentioned above in relating to the two broad categories
of data sets selected. That is, soldiers and civilians. Initial results and conclusions need to be mentioned
in order to assess the feasibility of the initial hypothesis. One could consider this paper as a candidate
for a 'best paper' award, however, they should not be optimistic about the results of the award.
