
0)  Indicate the title and authorship of the article reviewed.
    Sentiment Analysis of Soldiers’ Tweets - Comparison with civilians (TBC)
    Sumit Mukhija - mukhijas@tcd.ie
    Rachit Rastogi - rrastogi@tcd.ie
    Chao Chen - chenc1@tcd.ie
    Chen Wang -  wangc5@tcd.ie
    Chetan Prasad  - cprasad@tcd.ie 

1)  Is the title succinct and apt with respect to the essay content?

Rating: 5

Comments: The title indicates the subject and scope of the study supported by the essay content.


2)  Does the abstract accurately and concisely set the context for the
  work and indicate the main hypotheses?

Rating: 4

Comments: The abstract explains briefly the existing work, scope, and framework of the research topic under investigation.
However, it lacks information regarding the results and conclusion for the research topic. 

3)  Are the keywords appropriate?

Rating: 1

Comments: Keywords are not presented in the essay.


4)  Does the essay present clearly the research topic and the research
    questions to be pursued within the essay research?

Rating: 5

Comments: The essay establishes the scope, past efforts, and performances regarding the research by providing ample sources on the topic.
It also states the hypothesis and goals to be achieved.

5)  Does the research review synthesize a background literature within
    a conceptual framework that the authors propose and defend, making
    clear how the research questions pursued are left open by prior
    literature?

Rating: 4

Comments: The essay provides sufficient information regarding background literature which testifies to the extensive work conducted regarding the research problem independently.
However, it is unclear whether the current investigation of the research question being conducted is due to open questions of prior literature. 


6)  Does the research question seek to relate properties of texts
    falling within categories presented as relevant to separate
    categories argued within the draft as dependent?

Rating: 3

Comments: According to the current progress made by the authors, there has been no mention of an alternate hypothesis and it is unclear whether there is a correlation between results and hypothesis. 

7)  Does the methods section indicate clearly what corpora will be
    required and what sources will be adopted for the separate
    categories in support of answering the research questions?

Rating: 5

Comments: The essay iterates in detail regarding data collection and the source of libraries and methods implemented.


8)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the
    corpus will be processed in order to assess it according to
    the categorization scheme proposed within the essay?

Rating: 5 

Comments: The research methods section illustrates how the whole dataset is outlined to be processed and analyzed along with steps taken and libraries utilized.

9)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the relevant
    quantities and qualities will be measured and assessed,
    stipulating what would count as a confirmation of the authors'
    hypotheses and what would count as falsification of the authors'
    hypotheses?

Rating: 1

Comments: The essay does not acknowledge or suggest a presence of alternate hypothesis or any methods in support to measure or analyze them.

10) Are the research methods appropriate to the question studied?

Rating: 3

Comments: Although the research methods section informs the various steps to process the dataset, it does not emphasize if the investigation has already been conducted.
Also, the absence of any findings or evaluations makes it slightly hard to comprehend if the methods are appropriate with the current topic in the investigation.


11) Does the underlying research result in the assembly of a data set
    that will be useful to the wider research community?

Rating: 3

Comments: The final results could be competent and be of use to a wider research community.
However, there is insufficient evidence in the essay to prove otherwise.


12) Are results clearly provided?

Rating: 1

Comments: Absence of Results in the essay. 


13) Does the discussion of results provide a clear interpretation,
    with reference to the research questions posed?

Rating: 1

Comments: Discussion of results are not presented in the essay.


14) Do the conclusions emphasize how the interpreted results
    contribute to the literature?

Rating: 1

Comments: The Conclusion section is not present in the essay.

15) Are tables and figures clearly annotated and captioned?

Rating: 5

Comments: Table and Figure are annotated and captioned correctly.

16) Does the essay present comprehensive bibliographic details for
    works cited?

Rating: 4

Comments: The essay contains all the bibliographic details and references.
However, they are not cited in the essay.

17) Is the essay well written in a scholarly mode of presentation?

Rating: 5

Comments: The essay is written thoroughly and entails a smooth transition between the sections.


18) Does the description of individual contributions suggest an
    equitable division of labour?

Rating: 5

Comments: Yes, the contribution statement provided indicates equitable labor division.



19) Does the description of individual contributions provide
    sufficiently rich description of the individual contributions in
    a manner that allows an independent reader to assess who
    contributed what and in a fashion that justifies any percentage
    estimates of work?

Rating: 4

Comments: Although the percentage contribution suggests an equitable division of work, the nature of the contribution seems to be repeated for a few contributors.


20) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to emulate?

Rating: 5

Comments: I think my group should emulate the idea of providing more information with appropriate headings and incorporate the email-ids of all the authors of the essay.


21) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to avoid?

Rating: 5

Comments: I was unable to detect any quality that my group should avoid.

22) Is this work a good candidate for a "best paper" prize?

Rating: 3

Comments: Unfortunately, the essay lacks information regarding their findings or conclusions.
However, there is adequate potential for it to be a "best paper" based on the current framework and plan.
