Please complete one copy of this form for each paper that you are
given to review.

Authors will not know through this process who reviewed any
submission; it is recommended that this remain anonymous.

Each review form should be returned as a plain text file with the file
name:
CS7IS4-TEAMn-Review-StudentNumber-SURNAME.txt
where n in "TEAMn" is replaced by the cardinal number corresponding
to that of the group who submitted the article to review, and where
StudentNumber and SURNAME are that of the reviewer.

These should be aggregated into a zip file and uploaded via Blackboard,
adhering to the naming conventions described below for the individual
files.  The zip file should be named using the convention:
CS7IS4-REVIEWS-STUDENTNUMBER-STUDENTSURNAME-STUDENTFIRSTNAME-x-y-z-w.zip
where x, y, z and w are the integer numbers corresponding to the group
names of the papers reviewed, in order of increasing integer value.

The student number and surname will be removed from the files that
are returned to authors.

For each question where a scale is used, the intended scale is from 1
to 5, where 5 is the score for the best possible contribution and 1 is
the score for work that is at the opposite end of the spectrum.  For
each category of rating, justify your rating and provide feedback on
how the work could be improved.


0)  Indicate the title and authorship of the article reviewed.
Sentiment Analysis of Soldiers’ Tweets - Comparison with civilians (TBC)

1)  Is the title succinct and apt with respect to the essay content?

Rating: 4

Comments: The title is succinct and in sync with the research objective. The title reveals clear information about the research goal but contains one incomprehensible abbreviation.


2)  Does the abstract accurately and concisely set the context for the
  work and indicate the main hypotheses?

Rating: 5

Comments: The abstract concisely indicate the main hypothesis. The abstract also covers an in-depth discussion on the methodology being used in the research. Although the research goal is clearly stated in the abstract, no insights were provided about the expected results of the study.

3)  Are the keywords appropriate?

Rating: 1

Comments: The Keywords section is not included.


4)  Does the essay present clearly the research topic and the research
    questions to be pursued within the essay research?

Rating: 5

Comments: All sections of the essay have been clealy mentioned by the authors. The title also gives a clear view about the research topic and goal. Although few sections of the essay are incomplete at this moment, they are mentioned to form a proper structure of an idea paper.

5)  Does the research review synthesize a background literature within
    a conceptual framework that the authors propose and defend, making
    clear how the research questions pursued are left open by prior
    literature?

Rating: 4

Comments: Authors have done a good job in covering relevant literature present around the topic. Authors painstakingly justify their choice of dataset and the proposed research method. Although both "Introduction" and "Background" sections provide a conceptual framework, the authors do not identify a research gap or limitations in the existing field of study. Also, the authors fail to critique any of the related work.


6)  Does the research question seek to relate properties of texts
    falling within categories presented as relevant to separate
    categories argued within the draft as dependent?

Rating: 5

Comments: This research question assumes that wars have an impact on soldiers’ psychological and emotional states. To prove this assumption, the authors try to compare tweets posted by the war-veterans/soldiers and the general public/civilians. The authors perform sentiment analysis on the tweets to prove their hypothesis.

7)  Does the methods section indicate clearly what corpora will be
    required and what sources will be adopted for the separate
    categories in support of answering the research questions?

Rating: 4

Comments: The sources of corpora being considered for analysis are clearly mentioned. The authors provide essential details about how the chosen datasets are useful and appropriate for this research. Authors compare different sources of data and identify the drawbacks and limitations of each. Thus, clearly justifying their choice of dataset for the research. 

8)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the
    corpus will be processed in order to assess it according to
    the categorization scheme proposed within the essay?

Rating: 5

Comments: The proposed research methods are very clear about how the data would be processed and analyzed to answer the research question. The authors provide a clear rationale for the choice of the dataset. The Experiment section is strongly backed up by a flow-chart that defines the sequence of actions to be performed in the experiment, for example: Steps for data preprocessing.

9)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the relevant
    quantities and qualities will be measured and assessed,
    stipulating what would count as a confirmation of the authors'
    hypotheses and what would count as falsification of the authors'
    hypotheses?

Rating: 1

Comments: No. Author do not indicate relevant quantities and qualities (parameters) on which the expected result would be verified. Also, the authors are yet to generate results to prove their hypothesis. 

10) Are the research methods appropriate to the question studied?

Rating: 3

Comments: Although authors do not provide a detailed justification for the research method being used, it seems reasonable to use sentiment analysis on social media to prove the main hypothesis of the research. It could be suggested that authors may use deep NLP techniques such as Artificial Neural network, Recurrent Neural network to perform sentiment analysis more effectively. Thus, it may yield better results and the same could be compared with their initial methodology.

11) Does the underlying research result in the assembly of a data set
    that will be useful to the wider research community?

Rating: 5

Comments: Yes. The research results would be useful as the research analyzes the impact of the war on veterans’ mental state. The choice of the dataset is also justified by providing relevant literature review.


12) Are results clearly provided?

Rating: 1

Comments: The result section is incomplete.


13) Does the discussion of results provide a clear interpretation,
    with reference to the research questions posed?

Rating: 1

Comments: No. There is no discussion on how the results obtained from the analysis could be interpreted. The "Discussion" section is incomplete.

14) Do the conclusions emphasize how the interpreted results
    contribute to the literature?

Rating: 1 

Comments: The "Conclusion" section is incomplete.

15) Are tables and figures clearly annotated and captioned?

Rating: 5

Comments: Yes. The flowchart mentioned in the Experiment section is accurately annotated and captioned.

16) Does the essay present comprehensive bibliographic details for
    works cited?

Rating: 5

Comments: Bibliographic details of cited work are correctly mentioned in the essay. There would always be a scope to research thoroughly about the previous studies and their shortcomings.

17) Is the essay well written in a scholarly mode of presentation?

Rating: 4

Comments: Although authors did a great job in structuring the research work as per the standards, they missed Keywords section.


18) Does the description of individual contributions suggest an
    equitable division of labour?

Rating: 5

Comments:  Yes. The description of individual contributions suggests an equitable division of labor. The description of individual contributions indicates that all members have contributed equally towards the work.

19) Does the description of individual contributions provide
    sufficiently rich description of the individual contributions in
    a manner that allows an independent reader to assess who
    contributed what and in a fashion that justifies any percentage
    estimates of work?

Rating: 4

Comments: Although the description of individual contributions is sufficiently rich enough to indicate what research work is done by which member of the group, there is a overlap between the individual contributions. Thus, a more refined description of individual contributions is required.

20) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to emulate?

Rating: 5

Comments: The authors seem to be very clear about what they want to achieve and how are they going to achieve. I would like to appreciate the inclusion of the abstract and the hypothesis section in this essay. I would want us to do an in-depth study to include a hypothesis in our final essay. We Would also try to analyze previous studies and include or enhance some parts of it into our research. I would also want us to make use of figures or flowcharts if required.



21) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to avoid?

Rating: 4

Comments: Since the authors do not discuss the expected results of the research, we would want to include a brief discussion on the same.

22) Is this work a good candidate for a "best paper" prize?

Rating: 5

Comments:  According to me, this research work should be considered for the "best paper" award. Almost all sections of the essay convey clarity and the authors have practiced high research standards. The "Abstract, Literature Review and Experiment sections" are near perfect and cover all the major aspects of the research goal.
