Please complete one copy of this form for each paper that you are
given to review.

Authors will not know through this process who reviewed any
submission; it is recommended that this remain anonymous.

Each review form should be returned as a plain text file with the file
name:
CS7IS4-TEAMn-Review-StudentNumber-SURNAME.txt
where n in "TEAMn" is replaced by the cardinal number corresponding
to that of the group who submitted the article to review, and where
StudentNumber and SURNAME are that of the reviewer.

These should be aggregated into a zip file and uploaded via Blackboard,
adhering to the naming conventions described below for the individual
files.  The zip file should be named using the convention:
CS7IS4-REVIEWS-STUDENTNUMBER-STUDENTSURNAME-STUDENTFIRSTNAME-x-y-z-w.zip
where x, y, z and w are the integer numbers corresponding to the group
names of the papers reviewed, in order of increasing integer value.

The student number and surname will be removed from the files that
are returned to authors.

For each question where a scale is used, the intended scale is from 1
to 5, where 5 is the score for the best possible contribution and 1 is
the score for work that is at the opposite end of the spectrum.  For
each category of rating, justify your rating and provide feedback on
how the work could be improved.


0)  Indicate the title and authorship of the article reviewed.

Title: "Sentiment Analysis of Soldiers' Tweets - Comparison with civilians"
authorship: Sumit Mukhija, Rachit Rastogi, Chao Chen, Chen Wang, Chetan Prasad

1)  Is the title succinct and apt with respect to the essay content?

Rating: 5

Comments: The title is expressed clearly and briefly and relates with the aim of
          the research.


2)  Does the abstract accurately and concisely set the context for the
  work and indicate the main hypotheses?

Rating: 5

Comments: Yes, the abstract indicates the main hypothesis and sets the context
          for the work. The abstract is written in a very concise and precise
          manner.

3)  Are the keywords appropriate?

Rating: 1

Comments: There is no mention of the keywords in the research article.


4)  Does the essay present clearly the research topic and the research
    questions to be pursued within the essay research?

Rating: 5

Comments: Yes, the research topic is clearly expressed. The research question is
          written in a very understandable manner.

5)  Does the research review synthesize a background literature within
    a conceptual framework that the authors propose and defend, making
    clear how the research questions pursued are left open by prior
    literature?

Rating: 5

Comments: The article has proper literature review. The literature review clearly
          supports the proposed research hypothesis, methods and platform chosen
          for the research. The literature review shows that wars do affect
          veterans mentally which can be seen as a form of linguistic change in
          them. This research questions is trying to prove this using a new
          approach.


6)  Does the research question seek to relate properties of texts
    falling within categories presented as relevant to separate
    categories argued within the draft as dependent?

Rating: 5

Comments: Yes, As the research question is only limited to doing the sentiment
          Analysis of the tweets, only polarity of the tweets are considered which
          in turn will be used to identify the mental state of war veterans.
          Considering other features of text apart from sentiments
          may also lead to some surprising results.

7)  Does the methods section indicate clearly what corpora will be
    required and what sources will be adopted for the separate
    categories in support of answering the research questions?

Rating: 5

Comments: yes, the dataset and the source of the dataset has been clearly
          mentioned.

8)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the
    corpus will be processed in order to assess it according to
    the categorization scheme proposed within the essay?

Rating: 5

Comments: Yes, the research method shows very well and clearly using a flow
          diagram how the corpus will be processed. More details about the
          twitter api used for data collection should be provided. So that in
          future if someone tries to emulate the experiment it should be easier
          for them. Moreover, there should be mention of what sentiment analysis
          tool has been used for this process.

9)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the relevant
    quantities and qualities will be measured and assessed,
    stipulating what would count as a confirmation of the authors'
    hypotheses and what would count as falsification of the authors'
    hypotheses?

Rating: 4

Comments: Although it can be inferred from the essay that the research question
          is trying to find difference in the sentiments of the tweets by war
          veterans and civilians but has not mentioned whether it is expecting
          that the sentiments of the veterans to be more positive or more
          negative in comparison to the civilians.

10) Are the research methods appropriate to the question studied?

Rating: 5

Comments: Yes, the research methods chosen for this question are appropriate.
          The sentiment analysis method should consider emoticons too as majority
          of twitter users use them to express their feelings.


11) Does the underlying research result in the assembly of a data set
    that will be useful to the wider research community?

Rating: 3

Comments: As the research question is only limited to the war veterans, I do
          not think that it can be generalized to a wider research community.


12) Are results clearly provided?

Rating: 1

Comments: No comments can be made because results are not provided.


13) Does the discussion of results provide a clear interpretation,
    with reference to the research questions posed?

Rating: 1

Comments: No comments can be made because results are not provided.

14) Do the conclusions emphasize how the interpreted results
    contribute to the literature?

Rating: 1

Comments: No comments can be made because results are not provided.

15) Are tables and figures clearly annotated and captioned?

Rating: 1

Comments: No comments can be made because the article does not contain any figures
          or tables.

16) Does the essay present comprehensive bibliographic details for
    works cited?

Rating: 5

Comments:  Yes, the essay mentions references of all the works cited at the end.
           The reference style used is very convenient to refer to document
           which is being cited.

17) Is the essay well written in a scholarly mode of presentation?

Rating: 5

Comments: Yes, the essay is well written in scholarly mode of presentation.


18) Does the description of individual contributions suggest an
    equitable division of labour?

Rating: 5

Comments: Yes, there has been a fair division of work among the group members.


19) Does the description of individual contributions provide
    sufficiently rich description of the individual contributions in
    a manner that allows an independent reader to assess who
    contributed what and in a fashion that justifies any percentage
    estimates of work?

Rating: 5

Comments:Yes, the contribution of each individual member is clearly expressed.
          By reading the essay anyone can assess which member has worked on which
          part of the essay clearly.

20) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to emulate?

Rating: 5

Comments: Our own group should emulate following qualities of this paper:
          1) mentioning the organization of the paper which is indicated in the
          introduction section.
          2) the reference style used in the paper.


21) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to avoid?

Rating: 5

Comments: I did not find any such qualities which I would argue that my own
          group should try to avoid.

22) Is this work a good candidate for a "best paper" prize?

Rating: 5

Comments: Overall, the paper is written in a very good and detailed  manner.
          The language used is very clear and all the sections written are very
          easy to understand. In addition, the results of the research question
          can have major implications in treating the war veterans who have some
          mental problems. So this paper can be a good candidate for "best paper"
          prize.
