0)  Indicate the title and authorship of the article reviewed.

Sentiment Analysis of Soldiers’ Tweets - Comparison with civilians (TBC)
Sumit Mukhija, Rachit Rastogi, Chao Chen, Chen Wang, Chetan Prasad

1)  Is the title succinct and apt with respect to the essay content?

Rating: 4

Comments: Comparison criteria could be added in the title. For instance, "Comparison psychological and emotional states of soldiers and civilians based on the tweets" or "Analysis on emotional health changes on soldiers as compared to civilians based on tweets" could be a better title for understanding. Also, TBC in the title is unclear.


2)  Does the abstract accurately and concisely set the context for the
  work and indicate the main hypotheses?

Rating: 5

Comments: Abstract correctly indicates the main hypothesis of the paper. i.e. mental health changes in case of soldiers due to wars. If there were any results, those could also be briefly added in the abstract.

3)  Are the keywords appropriate?

Rating: 1

Comments: No keywords were mentioned.


4)  Does the essay present clearly the research topic and the research
    questions to be pursued within the essay research?

Rating: 4

Comments: The research topic is clearly mentioned in the abstract as well as the initial section of the paper. However, I feel that there are some other research questions that could be identified. For instance, does the war conditions also impact civilians' emotional state? Also, just as a suggestion, the part about prediction of suicide risk could be added.

5)  Does the research review synthesize a background literature within
    a conceptual framework that the authors propose and defend, making
    clear how the research questions pursued are left open by prior
    literature?

Rating: 3

Comments: Literature review covers a lot of existing works but some more information about these papers could be added. 
- how it is different from the research that you are conducting.
- how your research is an extension to it.
- how your research follows a similar approach as in the mentioned paper.


6)  Does the research question seek to relate properties of texts
    falling within categories presented as relevant to separate
    categories argued within the draft as dependent?

Rating: 5

Comments:  Yes, the research question relates the properties of text to other dependant categories. i.e. sentiment in the tweets with respect to the mental health.

7)  Does the methods section indicate clearly what corpora will be
    required and what sources will be adopted for the separate
    categories in support of answering the research questions?

Rating: 2

Comments: The paper clearly mentions the corpus as the tweets from veterans and civilians. But there are certain questions unanswered:
- Is it restricted to a geographical location?
- Is it restricted to a particular timeframe? Which wars are taken into account for the before and after analysis?
- Paper mentions about the selection of veterans based on certain keywords in bio. Is there an underlying assumption that people with these keywords in bio are actually veterans? What about civilians? Are they chosen randomly. 

8)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the
    corpus will be processed in order to assess it according to
    the categorization scheme proposed within the essay?

Rating: 4

Comments: Little information is provided about the processing of the tweets. However, something that could also be done as a part of processing is removing the hyperlinks in the tweets which are difficult to analyse as positive or negative or neutral. Similarly, how will retweets be handled?

9)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the relevant
    quantities and qualities will be measured and assessed,
    stipulating what would count as a confirmation of the authors'
    hypotheses and what would count as falsification of the authors'
    hypotheses?

Rating: 1

Comments: No information about the confirmation or falsification of the hypothesis is provided.

10) Are the research methods appropriate to the question studied?

Rating: 4

Comments: I feel that the research method is apt for the research question. However, how sad and happy will be relates to the prediction of suicide is unclear.


11) Does the underlying research result in the assembly of a data set
    that will be useful to the wider research community?

Rating: 5

Comments: Definitely, the dataset could be used for further analysis in the area of emotional health in soldiers due to wars.


12) Are results clearly provided?

Rating: 2

Comments: No results section is currently provided. However, the experiments section mentions briefly that "Finally, we compared the count of the positive and negative words used by the two sets of people tocome up with a result that displayed whether the veterans were targeted to depression and suicidal." No more information is provided about it further. 
- How are counts of positive and negative related to happy and sad? (which is the original research question)


13) Does the discussion of results provide a clear interpretation,
    with reference to the research questions posed?

Rating: 1

Comments: No results section is currently provided.

14) Do the conclusions emphasize how the interpreted results
    contribute to the literature?

Rating: 1

Comments: No conclusion is currently provided in the paper.

15) Are tables and figures clearly annotated and captioned?

Rating: 5

Comments: Yes the tables and figures and clearly annotated and captioned. However, for the figure, adding the caption below the image would work better.

16) Does the essay present comprehensive bibliographic details for
    works cited?

Rating: 5

Comments: Definitely, the bibliographic details are well done in the paper.

17) Is the essay well written in a scholarly mode of presentation?

Rating: 5

Comments: I would say overall the paper is well written. The sections are organised well.


18) Does the description of individual contributions suggest an
    equitable division of labour?

Rating: 5

Comments: Yes, The contributions are well divided. But, it could explain elaborately what subtasks were taken up.


19) Does the description of individual contributions provide
    sufficiently rich description of the individual contributions in
    a manner that allows an independent reader to assess who
    contributed what and in a fashion that justifies any percentage
    estimates of work?

Rating: 3

Comments: It could explain elaborately what subtasks were taken up. For instance, how the data extraction from twitter was done. The subtasks were not clear from the contribution sheet.

20) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to emulate?

Rating: 5

Comments: The referencing in the paper was quite apt and well done. I would like to incorporate this in my paper.


21) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to avoid?

Rating: 4

Comments: The results and conclusions in the paper are not very clear. Also, the research questions could be thought better. Our group should definitely avoid these.

22) Is this work a good candidate for a "best paper" prize?

Rating: 4

Comments: Idea-wise, I feel it is definitely a very good candidate. But research-wise if more thought is put in analysis, results and conclusion, it would be a good candidate for a "best paper" prize.
