0)  Indicate the title and authorship of the article reviewed.
    Sentiment Analysis of Soldiers’ Tweets - Comparison with civilians (TBC)
    Sumit Mukhija, Rachit Rastogi,Chao Chen, Chen Wang, Chetan Prasad
    Group-3
1)  Is the title succinct and apt with respect to the essay content?

Rating: 3

Comments: To some extent the dash symbol makes the title a little bit informal and bring some ambiguity (The comparison between tweets content or sentiment analysis).


2)  Does the abstract accurately and concisely set the context for the
  work and indicate the main hypotheses?

Rating: 3

Comments: The motivation and research methods have been outlined clearly including the data collection and how the comparison would be made. But no obvious hypothesis has been proposed.

3)  Are the keywords appropriate?

Rating: 0

Comments: No keyword was attached, this part should be added.


4)  Does the essay present clearly the research topic and the research
    questions to be pursued within the essay research?

Rating:4

Comments: In this essay, the authors clearly described their research topic and the method of procuring data as well as processing data. They also clarified how they would extract useful experimental method from previous research and how to select features. But the hypothesis had no been proposed and this makes the reader confused about what's the expected result they would achieve.

5)  Does the research review synthesize a background literature within
    a conceptual framework that the authors propose and defend, making
    clear how the research questions pursued are left open by prior
    literature?

Rating: 5

Comments: The authors outlined their review on previous research clearly. They also explained explicitly how they would use them in their own research.


6)  Does the research question seek to relate properties of texts
    falling within categories presented as relevant to separate
    categories argued within the draft as dependent?

Rating:5

Comments: The authors explained what features would be used to categorise the tweets content including tokenisation, removing stop words and etc. They also illustrated a diagram which gave the reader a clear process of categorisation.

7)  Does the methods section indicate clearly what corpora will be
    required and what sources will be adopted for the separate
    categories in support of answering the research questions?

Rating:3

Comments:Although the authors presented that the categories would be 'sad' and 'happy', but no specific features selection method was proposed.

8)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the
    corpus will be processed in order to assess it according to
    the categorization scheme proposed within the essay?

Rating:5

Comments: All the steps of data processing and categorisation are described clearly.

9)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the relevant
    quantities and qualities will be measured and assessed,
    stipulating what would count as a confirmation of the authors'
    hypotheses and what would count as falsification of the authors'
    hypotheses?

Rating:3

Comments:In the article, the authors clarified how they would classify people into 'happy' and 'sad' status through the semantic features extracted from tweets. But no specific criteria was proposed to verify their hypothesis. I understand this standard would be added as the research deploying.

10) Are the research methods appropriate to the question studied?

Rating: 4

Comments: In my point of view, the data collecting and processing are clarified and feature extraction is also proposed in an appropriate way. Only the criteria part is missed which would be amended through the process of research.


11) Does the underlying research result in the assembly of a data set
    that will be useful to the wider research community?

Rating:5

Comments:Yes. This research would give contribution to the field of sentiment analysis as well as giving reference to the psychologist consultant on helping people with mental issues.


12) Are results clearly provided?

Rating:0

Comments:At this stage, no result was clarified.


13) Does the discussion of results provide a clear interpretation,
    with reference to the research questions posed?

Rating:0

Comments:At this stage, no result was clarified.

14) Do the conclusions emphasize how the interpreted results
    contribute to the literature?

Rating:0

Comments:At this stage, no conclusion was clarified.

15) Are tables and figures clearly annotated and captioned?

Rating:5

Comments:The authors illustrated diagram of research process in a proper way.

16) Does the essay present comprehensive bibliographic details for
    works cited?

Rating:5

Comments:All the reference were cited properly in the right format. 

17) Is the essay well written in a scholarly mode of presentation?

Rating:4

Comments:Except the keyword part, the essay was written properly in a scholarly mode.


18) Does the description of individual contributions suggest an
    equitable division of labour?

Rating:5

Comments:The work was separated equally. It seems that every group member contributed equally to their research.


19) Does the description of individual contributions provide
    sufficiently rich description of the individual contributions in
    a manner that allows an independent reader to assess who
    contributed what and in a fashion that justifies any percentage
    estimates of work?

Rating:5

Comments:Yes. According to the contribution table, it seems everyone is clear about their individual task and each task weights the same.

20) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to emulate?

Rating:3

Comments:1.We should outline the paper structure in our own essay at the introduction section.
	 2.A diagram of research progress is worthy of reference.
	 3.The hyperlink of reference would give the reader great convenience.


21) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to avoid?

Rating:2

Comments:1.The keyword part should no be left out.
	 2.The hypothesis or the estimated outcome should not be omitted.

22) Is this work a good candidate for a "best paper" prize?

Rating: 3

Comments: Missing the keyword part and no obvious hypothesis proposed make this article not to be a good candidate.
