Please complete one copy of this form for each paper that you are
given to review.

Authors will not know through this process who reviewed any
submission; it is recommended that this remain anonymous.

Each review form should be returned as a plain text file with the file
name:
CS7IS4-TEAMn-Review-StudentNumber-SURNAME.txt
where n in "TEAMn" is replaced by the cardinal number corresponding
to that of the group who submitted the article to review, and where
StudentNumber and SURNAME are that of the reviewer.

These should be aggregated into a zip file and uploaded via Blackboard,
adhering to the naming conventions described below for the individual
files.  The zip file should be named using the convention:
CS7IS4-REVIEWS-STUDENTNUMBER-STUDENTSURNAME-STUDENTFIRSTNAME-x-y-z-w.zip
where x, y, z and w are the integer numbers corresponding to the group
names of the papers reviewed, in order of increasing integer value.

The student number and surname will be removed from the files that
are returned to authors.

For each question where a scale is used, the intended scale is from 1
to 5, where 5 is the score for the best possible contribution and 1 is
the score for work that is at the opposite end of the spectrum.  For
each category of rating, justify your rating and provide feedback on
how the work could be improved.


0)  Indicate the title and authorship of the article reviewed.
Sentiment Analysis of Soldiers’ Tweets - Comparison with civilians
Sumit Mukhija, Rachit Rastogi, Chao Chen, Chen Wang, Chetan Prasad

1)  Is the title succinct and apt with respect to the essay content?

Rating: 5

Comments: The title is concise and apt with respect to the essay content.


2)  Does the abstract accurately and concisely set the context for the
  work and indicate the main hypotheses?

Rating: 3

Comments: There are a few grammatical errors in the abstract. Particularly, the last sentence. 

3)  Are the keywords appropriate?

Rating: 1

Comments: There are no keywords present.


4)  Does the essay present clearly the research topic and the research
    questions to be pursued within the essay research?

Rating: 3

Comments: Research Hypothesis clearly defined. Research questions are not defined. 

5)  Does the research review synthesize a background literature within
    a conceptual framework that the authors propose and defend, making
    clear how the research questions pursued are left open by prior
    literature?

Rating: 4

Comments: Background literature clearly explains the techniques used to extract properties of text. Research hypothesis seems novel on reading the background section of the paper. 


6)  Does the research question seek to relate properties of texts
    falling within categories presented as relevant to separate
    categories argued within the draft as dependent?

Rating: 2

Comments: There were no research questions explicitly defined. A generous reading would be using the hypothesis as a research question. Properties of text are sentiments if tweets but is that enough? It is very difficult to see what are the dependent variables here.

7)  Does the methods section indicate clearly what corpora will be
    required and what sources will be adopted for the separate
    categories in support of answering the research questions?

Rating: 2

Comments: Not a convincing argument as to why Twitter was selected as the data source.

8)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the
    corpus will be processed in order to assess it according to
    the categorization scheme proposed within the essay?

Rating: 5

Comments: The data process and analysis section is clear and precise. Excellent visualisation with the flow chart. 

9)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the relevant
    quantities and qualities will be measured and assessed,
    stipulating what would count as a confirmation of the authors'
    hypotheses and what would count as falsification of the authors'
    hypotheses?

Rating: 2

Comments: The authors have not addressed the case where their hypothesis might be proven to be incorrect.

10) Are the research methods appropriate to the question studied?

Rating: 2

Comments: There are no explicit research questions. Method seems appropriate to the hypothesis. 


11) Does the underlying research result in the assembly of a data set
    that will be useful to the wider research community?

Rating: 5

Comments: Identifying veterans' tweets would be a novel text analytics research on its own. This dataset can have numerous future applications.


12) Are results clearly provided?

Rating: 1

Comments: Results aren't provided yet. 


13) Does the discussion of results provide a clear interpretation,
    with reference to the research questions posed?

Rating: 1

Comments: No results provided yet.

14) Do the conclusions emphasize how the interpreted results
    contribute to the literature?

Rating: 1

Comments: No conclusion provided yet.

15) Are tables and figures clearly annotated and captioned?

Rating: 5

Comments: Tables and figures are labelled and captioned well.

16) Does the essay present comprehensive bibliographic details for
    works cited?

Rating: 5

Comments: The essay is well cited.

17) Is the essay well written in a scholarly mode of presentation?

Rating: 4

Comments: The essay is very well structured. There are a few grammatical errors but those can be easily fixed. 


18) Does the description of individual contributions suggest an
    equitable division of labour?

Rating: 5

Comments: Each member has contributed equally to the essay so far. 


19) Does the description of individual contributions provide
    sufficiently rich description of the individual contributions in
    a manner that allows an independent reader to assess who
    contributed what and in a fashion that justifies any percentage
    estimates of work?

Rating: 4

Comments: On reading just the contribution statement, it is difficult for an independent reader to assess. However, on reading the essay the percentage estimates seems justified.


20) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to emulate?

Rating: 5

Comments: Using figures and table to express methodology and results. Data preprocessing techniques. 


21) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to avoid?

Rating: 5

Comments: I would like my group to frame proper research questions and work towards them. I would also want my group to identify cases of falsification of hypotheses.

22) Is this work a good candidate for a "best paper" prize?

Rating: 4

Comments: The problem statement is really interesting. I believe the final essay can be one of the top 5 papers.
