Please complete one copy of this form for each paper that you are
given to review.

Authors will not know through this process who reviewed any
submission; it is recommended that this remain anonymous.

Each review form should be returned as a plain text file with the file
name:
CS7IS4-TEAMn-Review-StudentNumber-SURNAME.txt
where n in "TEAMn" is replaced by the cardinal number corresponding
to that of the group who submitted the article to review, and where
StudentNumber and SURNAME are that of the reviewer.

These should be aggregated into a zip file and uploaded via Blackboard,
adhering to the naming conventions described below for the individual
files.  The zip file should be named using the convention:
CS7IS4-REVIEWS-STUDENTNUMBER-STUDENTSURNAME-STUDENTFIRSTNAME-x-y-z-w.zip
where x, y, z and w are the integer numbers corresponding to the group
names of the papers reviewed, in order of increasing integer value.

The student number and surname will be removed from the files that
are returned to authors.

For each question where a scale is used, the intended scale is from 1
to 5, where 5 is the score for the best possible contribution and 1 is
the score for work that is at the opposite end of the spectrum.  For
each category of rating, justify your rating and provide feedback on
how the work could be improved.


0)  Indicate the title and authorship of the article reviewed.

Sentiment Analysis of Soldiers’ Tweets - Comparison with
civilians
Sumit Mukhija, Rachit Rastogi,
Chao Chen, Chen Wang, Chetan Prasad
School of Computer Science and Statistics, Trinity College Dublin


1)  Is the title succinct and apt with respect to the essay content?

Rating: 3 

Comments: There are two motives suggested in the paper 1) Analyzing Sentiment of tweets posted by vetrans 
2) Analyzing mental condition of the war veterans
However, this is not clearly described that how this both studies will corelate to each other, in other words
How negative or positive sentiment of tweets relate to mental condition of the users.



2)  Does the abstract accurately and concisely set the context for the
  work and indicate the main hypotheses?

Rating: 4

Comments: "Existing works show that mental health
changes caused by wars can be reflected in linguistic features of the social media texts"
This line clearly conveys the hypothesis, linguistic features of social media texts can reflect mental health, however
it is also stated that this hypothesis is already tested in previous works, so it is not clear from the abstract that whether
the authors are going to test this hypothesis or if they are considering it as proven study.  

3)  Are the keywords appropriate?

Rating: 0

Comments:There are no keywords mentioned.


4)  Does the essay present clearly the research topic and the research
    questions to be pursued within the essay research?

Rating: 4 

Comments: The essay clearly presents that the authors wants to analyze social media texts of veteran soldiers and
doing that they want to analyze the mental condition of the veterans, however there is no proper correlations mentioned
that how these two studies will corelate to each other.

5)  Does the research review synthesize a background literature within
    a conceptual framework that the authors propose and defend, making
    clear how the research questions pursued are left open by prior
    literature?

Rating: 3

Comments: Following are the citations from the article

a) "Linguistic contents which users posted on social media have been proved to be
the basis for evaluating a person’s mental state (Weerasinghe et al. (2019) and Guntuku et al. (2017)).
However, the majority of research targets are normal people."
Here the authors clearly describe how they are going to pursue the research given in the citations

b) "Westgate in LeonardWestgate et al. (2015)
has come up with a method about the evaluation of veterans’ suicide risk. This paper will concentrate
on analyzing the impact of the war on veterans’ mental state through the Twitters posted by themselves
before and after the war instead of focusing on the prediction of the suicide risk of veterans"
Here also the authors mentioned to focus on mental health instead of narrowing down to suicide risk, thus exploring
new dimension of the research.

c) "Determining not just the sentiment of a text but even the
topic (Lin and He (2009)) on which it is written on is one of the interesting works in this field. Another
work makes use of the lexicons in the text and word dictionaries to extract the sentiment behind it (Maas
et al. (2011)). There is another work that trains a model to learn not just the words but to also capture the
sentiment behind it (Taboada et al. (2011))."
Here the authors mention some research done on sentiment analysis, but the authors don't mention the reason to state 
these researchs or how they are going to better this research or take it into another dimension.

d) section 2.3 - Sentiment Analysis on Social Media
In this section authors go on to mention some research works without mentioning that how they are going to use or extend
these researches. This section seemed more like a literature review.


6)  Does the research question seek to relate properties of texts
    falling within categories presented as relevant to separate
    categories argued within the draft as dependent?

Rating: 5 

Comments: The authors clearly presented the hypothesis, stating that mental health(property outside text) is related
to linguistic features of social media texts(properties inside text)

7)  Does the methods section indicate clearly what corpora will be
    required and what sources will be adopted for the separate
    categories in support of answering the research questions?

Rating: 3

Comments: 
From Section 3.1.1
"Several verified Twitter pages linked to the US
Army were manually analyzed and a few profiles of the veterans were used as an initial set. Fitting
representation was ensured by selecting 6 veterans belonging to all the genders."

From this text it can be infered that from some twitter pages linked to US Army, 6 profiles of war veterans were
extracted by manual analysis. However, what was the criteria to calssify an army proffessional as army veteran.


From section 2.1
"This paper will concentrate
on analyzing the impact of the war on veterans’ mental state through the Twitters posted by themselves
before and after the war instead of focusing on the prediction of the suicide risk of veterans."

Here the authors say that they are going to compare menta health of war veterans before and after war. However,
nowhere in the paper they mentioned that how are the going to split the tweets of war veterans into pre war and post 
war times.


8)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the
    corpus will be processed in order to assess it according to
    the categorization scheme proposed within the essay?

Rating: 5 

Comments: Section 3.1.2 Data Process and Analysis in the paper clearly describes how the authors are going to process
and assess their data.

9)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the relevant
    quantities and qualities will be measured and assessed,
    stipulating what would count as a confirmation of the authors'
    hypotheses and what would count as falsification of the authors'
    hypotheses?

Rating: 3

Comments: 
From Section 3.1.2
"Here we take into account the tweets of
all the selected veterans from our data and then run an analysis to gather information of there sentiments
breaking them into two parts, that is word count of how much words they have used are under the world
cloud of being “Happy”, and the same for the one under “Sad”. This identical analysis is then run on
tweets by ordinary people. Finally, we will categorise these words to check the two sets of results which
will ultimately help us identify an individual being in the state of depression with respects to the number
of words count of “positive” and “negative” results."
Here the authors clearly described the procedure to analyse the sentiment of the tweets. However, it is not clearly
stated that how labeling tweets as positive or negative can result into concluding mental health of the user.

10) Are the research methods appropriate to the question studied?

Rating: 3

Comments: The methods described in section 3.1.2 mentions largely the techniques to label the tweets as positive or negative,
and then counting amount of positive and negative words from two categories of people, but it is unclear that how this 
count leads to a conclusion of person being in a state of depression. 
So, in my point of view research methods are not appropriate to answer the research question
i.e "Is there any change in mental health of war veteran before and after the war"


11) Does the underlying research result in the assembly of a data set
    that will be useful to the wider research community?

Rating: 5

Comments: The authors propose to assemble tweets of veterans and common civilians. This type of data set can be used
widely for another purposes for example comparing thoughts of veterans and common civilians on different issues.


12) Are results clearly provided?

Rating: NA

Comments: Results not provided.


13) Does the discussion of results provide a clear interpretation,
    with reference to the research questions posed?

Rating:NA

Comments: No resultsand discussions are provided

14) Do the conclusions emphasize how the interpreted results
    contribute to the literature?

Rating: NA

Comments: Conclusion section is empty.

15) Are tables and figures clearly annotated and captioned?

Rating: 5 

Comments: There is one table and one figure presented in the paper which are clearly annotated and captioned.

16) Does the essay present comprehensive bibliographic details for
    works cited?

Rating: 5

Comments: All the bibliographic details for wroks cited are clearly given in Refrences section.

17) Is the essay well written in a scholarly mode of presentation?

Rating: 5

Comments: Yes, the essay is well wriiten.


18) Does the description of individual contributions suggest an
    equitable division of labour?

Rating:4

Comments: Individual contribution table clearly presents details on roles, however single task of data extraction 
is attributed to 4 out of 5 people.


19) Does the description of individual contributions provide
    sufficiently rich description of the individual contributions in
    a manner that allows an independent reader to assess who
    contributed what and in a fashion that justifies any percentage
    estimates of work?

Rating: 2

Comments: Data extraction part is divided in 4 people which makes it confusing to understand how this work was
divided.

20) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to emulate?

Rating: 3 

Comments: In some parts of the paper, the authors mention how they are going to extend the mentioned works of community.
This part i will like to emulate in my paper.


21) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to avoid?

Rating: 3

Comments: The paper's main weakness is that there is no clear agenda, in some parts paper mentions to compare mental health of
veterans to common civilians and in other parts the authors mentioned that they intend to compare pre and post war tweets of
war veterans. 
Also their is no clear mention that how the sentiment analysis of users' tweets may help in predicting mental state
of the user. 

Also the major pitfall in the approach of the authors is as following.

"The first step is to remove punctuation followed by Tokenizing which is the way toward separating a
goliath string into a rundown of words. “NLTK”, a python library is used for this process. “Stop words”,
where pull-out, as they do not change any meaning of a sentence hence, can be ignored."

Here the authors have mentioned that they are going to remove stop words as they do not change any meaning of a 
sentence. However, removing stop words is not a good idea to analyse sentiment.
For example consider the following tweet.
"I am not feeling happy today" => stop words removal => "I feeling happy today"
Considering positive words("happy") as comapared to negative words(None) this tweet will be classified as "positive".
Which is truely the undesirable outcome.
While doing Sentiment Analysis, ignoring negations in a sentence, is most probably going to result in undesirable 
results.
Hence removing stop words is not a good idea while doing sentiment analysis.  

22) Is this work a good candidate for a "best paper" prize?

Rating: 1

Comments: No, due to the flaws mentioned above it might not be a good candidate for a "best paper" prize.
