
0)  Indicate the title and authorship of the article reviewed.

Sentiment Analysis of Soldiers’ Tweets - Comparison with
civilians (TBC)
Sumit Mukhija, Rachit Rastogi, Chao Chen, Chen Wang, Chetan Prasad


1)  Is the title succinct and apt with respect to the essay content?

Rating: 4

Comments: The title is apt with respect to the essay content. However, this title is yet to be confirmed.


2)  Does the abstract accurately and concisely set the context for the
  work and indicate the main hypotheses?

Rating: 3

Comments: Hypotheses could have been addressed in more detailed manner.

3)  Are the keywords appropriate?

Rating: 3

Comments: The keywords are explained with the significant concepts.


4)  Does the essay present clearly the research topic and the research
    questions to be pursued within the essay research?

Rating: 3

Comments: The research questions can be narrowed down to a more specific niche.

5)  Does the research review synthesize a background literature within
    a conceptual framework that the authors propose and defend, making
    clear how the research questions pursued are left open by prior
    literature?

Rating: 4

Comments: This section is fine after some minor revision.

6)  Does the research question seek to relate properties of texts
    falling within categories presented as relevant to separate
    categories argued within the draft as dependent?

Rating: 3

Comments: Somewhat, with the punctuations, emoticons, lexicon and so forth.

7)  Does the methods section indicate clearly what corpora will be
    required and what sources will be adopted for the separate
    categories in support of answering the research questions?

Rating: 4

Comments: It have been mentioned in the method section- e.g.,Transcripts of postcards, YouTube videos, books by ex-serviceman.

8)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the
    corpus will be processed in order to assess it according to
    the categorization scheme proposed within the essay?

Rating: 4

Comments: Figure 1 explains the sequence of actions and processes.

9)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the relevant
    quantities and qualities will be measured and assessed,
    stipulating what would count as a confirmation of the authors'
    hypotheses and what would count as falsification of the authors'
    hypotheses?

Rating: 2

Comments: Hypotheses, falsification of the authors have not provided clearly.

10) Are the research methods appropriate to the question studied?

Rating: 3

Comments: With the data of 20 veterans' the resarch method seems feasible.


11) Does the underlying research result in the assembly of a data set
    that will be useful to the wider research community?

Rating: 2

Comments: Proper hypotheses will be needed to be useful to the wider researh community.

12) Are results clearly provided?

Rating: 1

Comments: Results not provided.


13) Does the discussion of results provide a clear interpretation,
    with reference to the research questions posed?

Rating: 1

Comments: No discussions over results.

14) Do the conclusions emphasize how the interpreted results
    contribute to the literature?

Rating: 1

Comments: No conclusion yet.

15) Are tables and figures clearly annotated and captioned?

Rating: 3

Comments: Yes, however more tables and figures could have been used for better presentation of the data collected.

16) Does the essay present comprehensive bibliographic details for
    works cited?

Rating: 3

Comments: Yes, but would like to see some more discussions and findings of the papers in relation to recent development.

17) Is the essay well written in a scholarly mode of presentation?

Rating: 3

Comments: Needs to encourage more discussions and questions.


18) Does the description of individual contributions suggest an
    equitable division of labour?

Rating: 5

Comments: With 20% contribution by each of the member in the group, it suggests an equitable division of labour.


19) Does the description of individual contributions provide
    sufficiently rich description of the individual contributions in
    a manner that allows an independent reader to assess who
    contributed what and in a fashion that justifies any percentage
    estimates of work?

Rating: 4

Comments: Yes, it has been mentioned in the Nature of Contribution

20) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to emulate?

Rating: 4

Comments: Equitable division of labour.


21) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to avoid?

Rating: 2

Comments: Abrupt conclusion

22) Is this work a good candidate for a "best paper" prize?

Rating: 3

Comments: Major revision needs to be done by providing discussion, conclusion and the future works.
