Title - 'Sentiment Analysis of Soldiers’ Tweets - Comparison with civilians (TBC)' 
Authors - Sumit Mukhija, Rachit Rastogi, Chao Chen, Chen Wang, Chetan Prasad

1)  Is the title succinct and apt with respect to the essay content?

Rating: 4

Comments: The title is appropriate. It is an interesting Topic and can be used to help soldiers overcome their bad experiences.


2)  Does the abstract accurately and concisely set the context for the
  work and indicate the main hypotheses?

Rating: 3

Comments: 

3)  Are the keywords appropriate?

Rating: 0

Comments: No keywords


4)  Does the essay present clearly the research topic and the research
    questions to be pursued within the essay research?

Rating: 2

Comments:The essay doesn't clearly specify the research questions. The topic can understood from the title and abstract of the essay.

5)  Does the research review synthesize a background literature within
    a conceptual framework that the authors propose and defend, making
    clear how the research questions pursued are left open by prior
    literature?

Rating: 4

Comments: The essay contains literature review related to the topic. The authors have mentioned of research papers that have evaluated veteran's suicide risk.


6)  Does the research question seek to relate properties of texts
    falling within categories presented as relevant to separate
    categories argued within the draft as dependent?

Rating: 3

Comments: No research question explicitly mentioned. But, the research analyses the sentiment in the tweets of veterans and relate them with the veterans' mental state 

7)  Does the methods section indicate clearly what corpora will be
    required and what sources will be adopted for the separate
    categories in support of answering the research questions?

Rating: 4

Comments: Yes it indicates. 

8)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the
    corpus will be processed in order to assess it according to
    the categorization scheme proposed within the essay?

Rating:4

Comments: Yes the essay explains how the corpus would be processed. The work classifies tweets into sad and happy. Is this data sufficient? Emotions such as anger, happiness etc. can be classified as positive or negative. But, does it necessarily imply 'depression'.

9)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the relevant
    quantities and qualities will be measured and assessed,
    stipulating what would count as a confirmation of the authors'
    hypotheses and what would count as falsification of the authors'
    hypotheses?

Rating: 3

Comments: The essay says that the tweets would be categorised into sad or happy, but doesn't explain the qualities and quantities that would be taken into consideration. It doesn't mention of the methods or tools used to analyse the sentiment in the extracted tokens.

10) Are the research methods appropriate to the question studied?

Rating:3

Comments: The question is not expicitly mentioned. Assuming the research to be on analysing sentiment in the tweets of veterans, the design or flow of the process. It would have been good if examples of data used are provided. Also, the tools used to analyse sentiment are not mentioned.


11) Does the underlying research result in the assembly of a data set
    that will be useful to the wider research community?

Rating: 2

Comments: The data set wouldn't be useful to the wider research community. Since it is a small data set of tweets from 20 veterans. Also, it is mentioned that 6 veterans were selected. And it is later mentioned that 20 Veterans were selected. Why was the number 6 previously mentioned and is there a reason? This has brought in some confusion.


12) Are results clearly provided?

Rating: 0

Comments: No results provided


13) Does the discussion of results provide a clear interpretation,
    with reference to the research questions posed?

Rating: 0

Comments: No discussion of results

14) Do the conclusions emphasize how the interpreted results
    contribute to the literature?

Rating: 0

Comments: No conclusions

15) Are tables and figures clearly annotated and captioned?

Rating: 5

Comments: Yes they are.

16) Does the essay present comprehensive bibliographic details for
    works cited?

Rating: 3

Comments: It would be nice if the references are numbered so that they could be easily traced.

17) Is the essay well written in a scholarly mode of presentation?

Rating: 3

Comments: It would have been better if the Results, Conclusion, Discussion and Future Works sections in the essay were completed and not left blank. 


18) Does the description of individual contributions suggest an
    equitable division of labour?

Rating: 4

Comments: Yes the description of individual contributions suggest an equitable division of labour. But, the time spent cannot be usually assessed. The number of references were less, which could indicate lesser exploration and reading.


19) Does the description of individual contributions provide
    sufficiently rich description of the individual contributions in
    a manner that allows an independent reader to assess who
    contributed what and in a fashion that justifies any percentage
    estimates of work?

Rating:3

Comments: The description of the work doesn't allow an independent reader to assess who contributed what and in a fashion that justifies any percentage
estimates of work. E.g., the work of extracting data from Twitter involved contributions from all the members of the group except one.

20) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to emulate?

Rating: 4

Comments: The essay contained a good abstract that was concise and clear. It helps the reader know the goal of the research.


21) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to avoid?

Rating:3

Comments: Tables and figures are nice if they are captioned at the bottom. References could be numbered.

	Grammatical Errors:
	- In addition, the widespread of social media such as Facebook ?
	- Linguistic contents ?
	- Research targets ? Preferably subjects
	- Twitters? or Tweets

22) Is this work a good candidate for a "best paper" prize?

Rating: 3

Comments: Since many sections of the essay are not yet completed and few of the other mistakes.


