PEER REVIEW GROUP 3
Sentiment Analysis of Soldiers’ Tweets - Comparison with civilians (TBC)

0)  Indicate the title and authorship of the article reviewed.
	Title: Sentiment Analysis of Soldiers’ Tweets - Comparison with civilians (TBC)
	Authors: Sumit Mukhija, Rachit Rastogi, Chao Chen, Chen Wang, Chetan Prasad
1)  Is the title succinct and apt with respect to the essay content?

Rating: 2	

Comments: The content tries to identify the mental health of army veterans, Identifying Mental Health issues in army veterans could have been a better title.


2)  Does the abstract accurately and concisely set the context for the
  work and indicate the main hypotheses?

Rating: 3

Comments: Yes the abstract precisely set the context for the work done. However, the hypothesis proposed could be narrower in context.

3)  Are the keywords appropriate?

Rating: 1

Comments: keywords were nowhere to be found


4)  Does the essay present clearly the research topic and the research
    questions to be pursued within the essay research?

Rating: 4

Comments: The essay clearly presents the research topic and questions.

5)  Does the research review synthesize a background literature within
    a conceptual framework that the authors propose and defend, making
    clear how the research questions pursued are left open by prior
    literature?

Rating: 4

Comments: Yes, the background literature mentioned targeted the wider audience. The paper tries to narrow the scope down to war veterans and tries to identify signs of mental health issues.


6)  Does the research question seek to relate properties of texts
    falling within categories presented as relevant to separate
    categories argued within the draft as dependent?

Rating:4

Comments: Yes, the features that the authors plan to extract from the text will be used to appropriately categorise the dependent variables( Sentiments of Army Veterans) in this case. That is, the features extracted from the tweets(Sentiments) will aid in classifying the mental state of the veterans. 

7)  Does the methods section indicate clearly what corpora will be
    required and what sources will be adopted for the separate
    categories in support of answering the research questions?

Rating: 3

Comments: The methods section clearly justifies the tools and dataset used. The sources are also mentioned adequately that would lead the way for answering the research questions. However, the steps to be taken for processing the data can be re-visited as currently decided methods might deteriorate the results.
For example, In sentiment analysis, removing the stop words can change the whole polarity of the sentence .
The products seems to be good. — POSITIVE
I didn’t like the product. — NEGATIVE
After removing stop words :
products seems good. — POSITIVE
like product. — NEGATIVE
Like is a “Happy words” and can cause problems while doing the sentiment analysis.

8)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the
    corpus will be processed in order to assess it according to
    the categorization scheme proposed within the essay?

Rating: 4

Comments: Yes it is mentioned in the methodology how the corpus would be process for categorization.

9)  Does the description of research methods indicate how the relevant
    quantities and qualities will be measured and assessed,
    stipulating what would count as a confirmation of the authors'
    hypotheses and what would count as falsification of the authors'
    hypotheses?

Rating: 2

Comments: No evaluation plan has been proposed in the research methods.

10) Are the research methods appropriate to the question studied?

Rating: 4

Comments: Yes, the research methods seems state of the art for answering the questions raised by the authors.


11) Does the underlying research result in the assembly of a data set
    that will be useful to the wider research community?

Rating: 2

Comments: As the authors are pivoting a widely researched question of “identifying mental health in general public” to army veterans. The results of the research and the methodology followed might not prove to be highly useful to the research community. 


12) Are results clearly provided?

Rating: 1

Comments: Results are not yet provided.


13) Does the discussion of results provide a clear interpretation,
    with reference to the research questions posed?

Rating: 1

Comments: Results are not yet provided

14) Do the conclusions emphasize how the interpreted results
    contribute to the literature?

Rating: 1

Comments: Conclusion is not yet written

15) Are tables and figures clearly annotated and captioned?

Rating: 5

Comments: yes, the figure and tables are clearly captioned and annotated.

16) Does the essay present comprehensive bibliographic details for
    works cited?

Rating: 4

Comments: Yes, it does present comprehensive details.

17) Is the essay well written in a scholarly mode of presentation?

Rating: 4

Comments: Yes, the general flow of the essay is adequate and all the sections binds with each other well. 


18) Does the description of individual contributions suggest an
    equitable division of labour?

Rating: 5

Comments: The works seems to be equally divided.


19) Does the description of individual contributions provide
    sufficiently rich description of the individual contributions in
    a manner that allows an independent reader to assess who
    contributed what and in a fashion that justifies any percentage
    estimates of work?

Rating: 4

Comments: yes, the description is clearly mentioned which also justifies the percentage contribution as well. 

20) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to emulate?

Rating: 4

Comments: The flow of the paper is appreciable, all the sections really binds well and justification of the research methods are well defined. The use of flowcharts and tables really keeps the reader interested in the paper and that would be the quality I would like to emulate in my group


21) What qualities of this paper would you argue that your own
    group should try to avoid?

Rating: 3

Comments: The processing steps and the methods proposed for processing the corpus mentioned removal of stop words, which might change the context of the sentence as explained in the previous question. This might defeat the purpose of analysing sentiments from the tweets.
Such things indicate that the methodologies were not carefully explored and I would like to avoid such practice in my group work.

22) Is this work a good candidate for a "best paper" prize?

Rating: 3

Comments: The Title showed promise. It has potential to be a good research paper given the initial motivation of the paper. Some bits were good, like explaining the methodology using flow diagrams and using state of the art research methods. However, it is not attempting to prove any ground-breaking hypothesis. Rather, the paper is pivoting currently well researched topics and narrowing the scope of the research to a smaller group.
So, No the paper in its current state is not a candidate for a best paper.

